Game: Colonial America type Casual MMO 
 
Casual 
Economy based 
Stardew type 

 

Areas: Homestead (Player’s own playground/Co-op Home), Riverside (Port town, starter area, fishing and Lumber), Honeywell (Inland Settlement, main focus is Farming and Husbandry), Maxwell and Co. (Trading hub, Hunting and Mining). Native Settlement (medicine, foraging) 

4 types of stuff made for selling: Raw goods, Refined goods, crafted goods and finished products. Each area has some way to Refine goods they focus on 

Riverside: In winter you can make Stockfish. Lumber can be milled. 

Honeywell: Mills and smokehouses. 

MaC: Fur Dressing, smokehouse and a smeltery. 

Native Settlement: Has a doctor who can mix ingredients 

Homestead: Has a starter house, upgradable. Can have all refining methods of Public Areas. Also has farmland, can have animal pens, smithy, fruit farms etc.  Also has a river access for fish traps and fishing. 

Time Cycle: I In-game day is 2h (1h of daytime, 1h of nighttime), 1 IRL week is a year. MON-TUE is Spring (Best time to plant crops, animals breed best), WED-THU is Summer (Fruit time, first harvest for those who planted early, and a second planting time), FRI-SAT is Fall (Best Fishes, more fruits, second harvest). SUN is Winter (Stockfish drying, Ice gathering, Lagering beer) 

 

Skills for Raw and Refined Goods. 

 

Farming: Plant crops, give fertilizer (optional, gives better crops), take weeds out (more yield), water (Scheduled rain waters them enough, more water just grants better yields) harvest. Grains, veggies, berries etc.  

Fruits: Belong to Farming: Plant the fruit tree, water, take pests out, protect the fruits (gives better yields) and collect fruits. 1 tree bears fruit for 12 IRL Weeks, needs 1 Week to grow. Yields get better with an older tree. Can then be harvested for lumber. 
 
Hunting: Can choose either a musket or a bow. Bow is silent, but less deadly and less range. More accurate. Less upgrades. Musket’s loud but can take bigger animals better. More range. Needs reloading. Can be later upgraded to be rifled, with a tighter muzzle for better accuracy. When killing animal, either skin now, take hide, tusks/antlers and some meat, or take to Homestead. Full animal can be used there (Organs for pig feed/sell, bones for fertilizer, 4x the meat and all what you get by skinning. Takes time to transport the kill, more to process into materials. Can spoil.  
 

Fishing: Includes also gathering shellfish. Either by rod, net or trap. Rod is manual, net is for open sea only (need fishing vessel, is expensive to buy) and trap is for river only (passive, needs bait). Different fish for each season. You need to smoke, salt or pot the fish. During Winter you can sell the fish for Stockfish dryers, they pay better, only winter fish. Fish Spoil if not preserved. 

Husbandry: Taking care of animals. Sheep, goats, cows, chickens, pigs and horses. Sheep provide wool (sheared every 12h, can be turned into yarn). Goats and cows provide milk (can be milked every hour, each cow can store 8 hours of milk, goats 4. Milk can be turned into cheese and butter. Butter can be used for potting fish. Cows needier than goats).  Chickens produce eggs (collect every 3 hours, nest can store 5 eggs. Every time there is an overflow + nest free, small change for hatching). Pigs produce lots of meat (Unlike every other animal, pigs can be fed meat, organs and food waste).  Horses provide more mobility and work aid (pulling plows. Maybe give this to Oxen?). Each animal will get an indicator if they are starting to get old and ready to be killed/sold to butchers). Killed animals give the same stuff as a Hunted animal taken into Homestead, less valuable resources though. 

Lumber: Chop trees, debark, cut. It can be later used to create handmade furniture. Can also be just chopped into firewood. 

Mining: Also includes panning. Find areas with ore, mine, smelt and sell. Gold panning available on the river every Spring with melting mountain ice. 

Foraging: Can randomly find mushrooms, berries and such while traveling between areas. Some herbs can be turned into medicine. Honey belongs here. Can start an apiary with wildflowers. 

 

Skills for Crafted Goods and Refined Products: 
 
Carpentry: Create wooden furniture, make more buildings, better fences. 

Smithing: Forge finished goods such as nails. Used for building stuff. 

Bricklaying: Make bricks. You can find clay deposits while digging near the river. Can be turned into bricks. Used to make better buildings. 

Cooking/Baking: Make better foods. More filling, bigger morale boost, better preservation. 
